switches/http/README.md, before:

asebahttp - a switch to bridge HTTP to Aseba

2014-12-01 David James Sherman <david dot sherman at inria dot fr>

Provide a simple REST interface with introspection for Aseba devices.

- GET  /nodes                                 - JSON list of all known nodes
- GET  /nodes/:NODENAME                       - JSON attributes for :NODENAME
- PUT  /nodes/:NODENAME                       - write new Aesl program (file= in multipart/form-data)
- GET  /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE             - retrieve JSON value for :VARIABLE
- POST /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE             - send new values(s) for :VARIABLE
- POST /nodes/:NODENAME/:EVENT                - call an event :EVENT
- GET  /events[/:EVENT]*                      - create SSE stream for all known nodes
- GET  /nodes/:NODENAME/events[/:EVENT]*      - create SSE stream for :NODENAME

Server-side event (SSE) streams are updated as events arrive.
SSE stream for reserved event "poll" sends variables at approx 10 Hz.
If a variable and an events have the same name, it is the EVENT the is called.

DONE (mostly):
- Dashel connection to one Thymio-II and round-robin scheduling between Dashel and Mongoose
- read Aesl program at launch, upload to Thymio-II, and record interface for introspection
- GET /nodes, GET /nodes/:NODENAME with introspection
- POST /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE (fixme: sloppily allows GET and values in the request)
- POST /nodes/:NODENAME/:EVENT (fixme: sloppily allows GET and values in the request)
- handle asynchronous variable reporting (GET /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE)
- JSON format for variable reporting (GET /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE)
- program flashing (PUT /nodes/:NODENAME) although body format is tricky

TODO:
- allow only POST requests for updates and events (POST /.../:VARIABLE) and (POST /.../:EVENT)
- form processing for updates and events (POST /.../:VARIABLE) and (POST /.../:EVENT)
- handle more than just one Thymio-II node!
- implement SSE streams and event filtering (GET /events) and (GET /nodes/:NODENAME/events)

This code includes source code from the Mongoose embedded web server from Cesanta
Software Limited, Dublin, Ireland, and licensed under the GPL 2.

This code borrows heavily from the rest of Aseba, especially switches/medulla and
examples/clients/cpp-shell, which bear the copyright and LGPL 3 licensing notice below.


/*
Aseba - an event-based framework for distributed robot control
Copyright (C) 2007--2012:
Stephane Magnenat <stephane at magnenat dot net>
(http://stephane.magnenat.net)
and other contributors, see authors.txt for details

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
*/

Commit message:

fixed comments, added Node-RED example

switches/http/README.md, after:

asebahttp - a switch to bridge HTTP to Aseba

2015-01-01 David James Sherman <david dot sherman at inria dot fr>

Provide a simple REST interface with introspection for Aseba devices.

- GET  /nodes                                 - JSON list of all known nodes
- GET  /nodes/:NODENAME                       - JSON attributes for :NODENAME
- PUT  /nodes/:NODENAME                       - write new Aesl program (file= in multipart/form-data)
- GET  /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE             - retrieve JSON value for :VARIABLE
- POST /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE             - send new values(s) for :VARIABLE
- POST /nodes/:NODENAME/:EVENT                - call an event :EVENT
- GET  /events\[/:EVENT\]*                      - create SSE stream for all known nodes
- GET  /nodes/:NODENAME/events\[/:EVENT\]*      - create SSE stream for :NODENAME

Server-side event (SSE) streams are updated as events arrive.
If a variable and an event have the same name, it is the EVENT the is called.
On a local machine the server can handle 600 requests/sec with 10 concurrent connections,
more (up to 2.5 times more) if the requests are pipelined as is the HTTP/1.1 default.

A typical execution is: asebahttp --port 3000 --aesl mycode.aesl 'ser:name=Thymio-II' &
After myevents.aesl is compiled and uploaded, check with 'curl http://127.0.0.1:3000/nodes/thymio-II'

Start an 'asebadummynode 0' and run 'make test' to execute some basic unit tests.
Run the script 'do_valgrind_macosx.sh' to valgrind the server using curl and siege.
An example [Node-RED](http://nodered.org) flow can be copy/pasted from test-nodered-simple.json.

DONE (mostly):
- Dashel connection to one Thymio-II and round-robin scheduling between Aseba and HTTP connections
- read Aesl program at launch, upload to Thymio-II, and record interface for introspection
- GET /nodes, GET /nodes/:NODENAME with introspection
- POST /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE (sloppily allows GET /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE/:VALUE\[/:VALUE\]*)
- POST /nodes/:NODENAME/:EVENT (sloppily allows GET /nodes/:NODENAME/:EVENT\[/:VALUE\]*)
- form processing for updates and events (POST /.../:VARIABLE) and (POST /.../:EVENT)
- handle asynchronous variable reporting (GET /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE)
- JSON format for variable reporting (GET /nodes/:NODENAME/:VARIABLE)
- implement SSE streams and event filtering (GET /events) and (GET /nodes/:NODENAME/events)
- Aesl program bytecode upload (PUT /nodes/:NODENAME)
  use curl --data-ascii "file=$(cat vmcode.aesl)" -X PUT http://127.0.0.1:3000/nodes/thymio-II
- accept JSON payload rather than HTML form for updates and events (POST /.../:VARIABLE) and (POST /.../:EVENT)

TODO:
- handle more than just one Thymio-II node
- gracefully shut down TCP/IP connections (half-close, wait, close)
- remove dependency on libjson? Our output is trivial and input syntax is limited to unsigned vectors

This code borrows from the rest of Aseba, especially switches/medulla and examples/clients/cpp-shell,
which bear the copyright and LGPL 3 licensing notice below.


/*
Aseba - an event-based framework for distributed robot control
Copyright (C) 2007--2012:
Stephane Magnenat <stephane at magnenat dot net>
(http://stephane.magnenat.net)
and other contributors, see authors.txt for details

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
*/
