An overview of Challenge
Stéphane Magnenat

%! Encoding: utf-8
%!postproc(html): '(aseba)(\s)' '<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">\1</span>\2'
%!postproc(tex): aseba \\textsc{aseba}
%!postproc(html): '(Aseba)(\s)' '<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">\1</span>\2'
%!postproc(tex): Aseba \\textsc{Aseba}
%!postproc(tex): \t '    '

== Introduction ==

Aseba challenge is a simulated world where aseba-controlled robots compete for energy.
You can use it as a playground to explore writing aseba scripts or as an educational game to
learn and teach programming.

Challenge shows the score of each robot on translucid boards hanging over the arena.
The goal is to stay alive by collecting energy.
As long as a robot is alive, its points increase; when it dies, they get divided by two.
Four blue sources provide energy to nearby robots.
When a source is depleted, it becomes red and does not provide energy any more.
From time to time, a source will sunken into the ground and robots will not see it anymore until it reappears.

== Adding robots ==

To get started, you have to click "Add a new robot", and choose a name for it.
If you are a group, you have to add one robot for each player.
You can remove all the robots by clicking "Remove all robots".

== Programming robots ==

Once aseba challenge is running, you have to start aseba studio to program your robot.
For each robot, you have to run one instance of studio, which can run on any computer.
Set the hostname of the computer running challenge in Host and set the port number of the robot in Port.
In challenge, the port number is printed beside the robot name on the score boards.

== Moving camera ==

You can hide the buttons by checking "Auto hide": the buttons will only show up when the mouse pointer is around them.

You can have the camera move automatically by checking "Auto camera".
If you are moving the camera manually, the controls are the following:
- ctrl + left mouse button: rotate view
- ctrl + shift + left mouse button: displace view on x/y
- ctrl + shift + right mouse button: displace view on z
